# Brunel_Dissertation_BEng_EEE
AI-Based Food System to Regulate Personal Carbon Footprint

Food classification and recommendation integrated into a system is an implementation of artificial intelligence (AI) which can help with tracking food intake and ease the decision process of what to eat. Whilst many diet apps of this category focus on nutrition management for valid reasons of obesity and related health issues rising, there is a lack of focus on the harm the food industry produces in the environment. This thesis discusses state-of-the-art methods for classification and recommendation including the experiments carried out using various techniques to create a food system incorporating carbon footprint emissions.
Current state-of-the-art methods for food classification include the use of convolutional neural networks (CNN). This was implemented with the use of the InceptionV3 architecture which offers high accuracy and is not computationally expensive. A food dataset with 101,000 images was used to train and test this model.
To build the recommender system a couple of techniques were tested, the final implementation uses the K-means algorithm due to its clustering capabilities. The recommender implemented hybrid filtering techniques where information about the features of an item together with items’ ratings were used to recommend similar foods to a user.
This thesis discusses and analyses work consisting of supervised and unsupervised learning. The final results of the experiments demonstrate high accuracy and reliability showing evident ability of classifying foods correctly and recommending similar types of food with lower carbon footprint emissions, according to the user’s preference.
